s100py
======

S100 is a family of specifications where each data product has it's own extensions to the basic format prescribbed
by S100.  S100 files are HDF5 where data types, names and structure is in the aforementioned specs.  s100py uses pep8 naming for the api itself.

The s1xx.S1XXFile class handles the top level data management and is derived from the h5py.File class.
There is a "root" data member for the file object which is where the S100/HDF5 data is held.
Each data specification should create it's own S100 type file object but there is a basic s100.S100File class
which can read the general top level metadata that pertains to all data specifications.

The three primary data types in HDF5 attributes, datasets and groups.  s100py encapsulates groups
(which can have attributes) with the s1xx.S1XX_Attributes_base class (should we refactor this name?).
Datasets are derived from s100py.S1XX_Dataset_base.
S100 also adds groups that have a trailing number and can have an arbitrary number of occurrences.
These objects are managed with the s1xx.S1XX_MetadataList_base class.

Each S100 data class has data and some methods to determine what data is expected to be contained therein.
The function get_standard_properties() will show what child data is referenced in the specs.
The initialize_properties() method will create place holder values for all expected child data.
Using initialize_properties(True) will recurse the data spec and create a skeleton of all children and their children.
The get_standard_properties_mapping() show the HDF5 names and they pythonic pep8 names that are used with them.

Inside of each S100 data class are data values and functions related to each data value.
For a "dataname" value there are two properties, dataname_type and dataname_attribute_name,
and a function dataname_create.

When the File is being written any data that has not been set or initialized will be omitted.
This way optional data will not appear at all.

Code sample for creating the beginning of an S102 file

Create a blank file amd see the root object is empty ::

    >>> from s100py import s102
    >>> f = s102.S102File("c:\\temp\\test.s102.h5")
    >>> print(f.root)
    <class 's100py.s102.S102Root'>
    OrderedDict()

What properties are allowed in the root? ::

    >>> print(f.root.get_standard_properties())
    ['bathymetry_coverage', 'east_bound_longitude', 'epoch', 'extent_type_code', ..., 'west_bound_longitude']

What is the bathymetry name in S102 nomenclature ::

    >>> f.root.bathymetry_coverage_attribute_name
    'BathymetryCoverage'

Read the bathymetry_coverage ::

    >>> f.root.bathymetry_coverage
    Traceback (most recent call last):
      File "C:\PydroTrunk\Miniconda36\NOAA\site-packages\Python3\s100py\s102.py", line 1386, in bathymetry_coverage
        return self._attributes[self.bathymetry_coverage_attribute_name]
    KeyError: 'BathymetryCoverage'f.root.feature_information_create()

You have to create it first!  ::

    >>> f.root.bathymetry_coverage_create()
    >>> bathy = f.root.bathymetry_coverage  # grab a reference to the data

Next is a little more complex, S100 says you can have multiple items and they would be named Name_NNN where _NNN
is a zero padded number.  The BathmetryCoverage inside the BathymetryCoverage (yes, they duplicated the names)
is one of these, so it's going to be BathymetryCoverage/BathymetryCoverage.001 -- note the dot --
because S102 also is different than S100 which uses an underscore. You can see this gets encoded as a "List" type.
We have to create the list then populate it ::

    >>> bathy.bathymetry_coverage_type
    s100py.s102.BathymetryCoverages_List
    >>> bathy.bathymetry_coverage_attribute_name  #
    'BathymetryCoverage\\.\\d+'
    >>> bathy.bathymetry_coverage_create()
    >>> bathy_list = bathy.bathymetry_coverage
    >>> bathy_01 = bathy_list.append_new_item()

Now we can put in values into its properties ::

    >>> bathy_01.north_bound_latitude = 10.5
    >>> bathy_01
    <class 's100py.s102.BathymetryFeatureInstance'>
    OrderedDict([('northBoundLatitude', 10.5)])

You can see the latitide above, but you can also access the data using list notation (it is derived from a list really) ::

    >>> bathy_list[0]
    <class 's100py.s102.BathymetryFeatureInstance'>
    OrderedDict([('northBoundLatitude', 10.5)])

Finally let's initialize everything in this bathy coverage,  NOTE it overwrites our north latitude,
so we should have initialized first. ::

    >>> bathy_01.initialize_properties()
    >>> print(bathy_01)
    <class 's100py.s102.BathymetryFeatureInstance'>
    OrderedDict([('northBoundLatitude', 0.0), ('Group\\.\\d+', []), ('eastBoundLongitude', 0.0),
    ('extentTypeCode', False), ('gridOriginLatitude', 0.0), ('gridOriginLongitude', 0.0), ...])

.. toctree::
    :maxdepth: 4

    extending_the_api
    s1xx
    s100
    s102


